dal makhni is one of the most popular
Punjabi dishes it's rich creamy full of
flavor and full of protein and today I'm
going to show you how to make it and
that basically means lentils and mockney
means buttery full of butter and in
olden day ladies in the village would
put it in a big pot and keep stirring it
and cook these lentils for a whole day
but today we are going to make it in a
pressure cooker it easy and still you
get great results and for making dal
makhani we are going to use black pure
down that's what is used for dal makhni
black color table which is like Maggie
dal it's also called Marilla so I'm
using this one over tau you can get
packets like these from any Indian
grocery store or you can even get like
black lentils from other grocery stores
like here in Canada we get it from super
stores so sometimes I get my lentils
from the superstore so is soak my
lentils in water overnight so I have
here about half a bowl of black lentils
make sure you wash them so that they are
nice and clean all the starch is gone so
watch them couple of times and soak them
in water overnight so half a bowl of
black lentils and one egg bowl of red
kidney beans any kind of red kidney
beans can be used so take these mix them
both and soak them in water I'm going to
soak them in two bowls of water
overnight
go ahead and start preparing our lentils
that is my lentils which have been
soaking in water overnight we'll now go
ahead and cook them in the pressure
cooker in my pressure cooker I have two
tablespoons of ghee that is clarified
butter and I'm just trying three four
cloves of garlic and one centimetre
piece of ginger in it small pieces so
it's frying in this oil and go ahead and
add our lentils in so just adding our
lentils along with ginger and garlic and
we'll keep it on high heat as soon as
there is one vessel we'll turn the heat
down and we'll cook them going to go
ahead and add two cups of water more
adding two more cups of water and if you
are making it on a part you can simmer
it for at least half a half an hour and
submit them for half an hour until the
lentils are completely tender and I'm
going to add three teaspoons of salt
teaspoon turmeric as per taste red
chilli powder one teaspoon for me quick
stir and close the lid off your pressure
cooker let everything cook together
after the pressure cooker gives three
whistles turn off the heat and even
after you turn the heat off
it will give two or three whistles so
you let it they're kind of cool down
once the pressure cooker it has cooled
down you open the lid and as you can see
our lentils have cooked so just with the
back of your spoon you can just mash it
a little bit or if you have a masher
just mash it and just set it aside and
we'll make a third car that is basically
the tempering that we are going to do or
seasoning for time so I'm using pure
they see key you can use any kind so not
too much just two tablespoons because we
are going to add whipping cream for that
richness and to make our gravy more
creamy so just adding two table chains
and in this once the ghee is hot enough
we'll go ahead and add cumin seeds one
teaspoon and crushed coriander seeds he
is hot enough we'll go ahead and add 2
TSP of coriander seeds crushed teaspoon
of cumin seeds the crackling right away
will add onion using one large chopped
onion along with our onions we'll go
ahead and add 1 green chili for that
extra kick of flavor you can add one
tablespoon of ginger traffic paste mix
it in well and just half a teaspoon of
salt so that onions get golden brown
faster don't need to eat too much
because we've already mixed everything
with the lentils
half a teaspoon of salt here onions are
turning golden brown we'll go ahead and
add 2 tablespoons of tomato paste give
it another minute or two and our third
cup will be almost ready
done we'll go ahead and add it in detail
go ahead add our third kind EDA and let
our dal simmer for another 15-20 minutes
so that everything is nice rich and
creamy and also at this time we'll go
ahead and add our cream for that extra
richness if you are watching your
waistline you can always add some yogurt
so I'm just adding half a cup of
whipping cream here our dal makhni is
ready we'll just finish it off with half
a teaspoon of garam masala and garnish
it with cilantro leaves so adding half a
teaspoon of garam masala
finishing it off with some green
cilantro leaves and this is Punjabi food
at its best you've got to try this Thal
to realize how good it is
so hey make it tonight and don't forget
to subscribe to eat East Indian and
comment